---
title: GLBIO 2025
date: 2025-05-15
layout: single
categories: [blog]
excerpt: "Maybe the real treasure was the friends we made along the way"
image_sliders:
    - slider-2025-05-15
---

I spent last week in Minneapolis, Minnesota at the International Society for Computational Biology Great Lakes Bioinformatics Conference, aptly named
GLBIO 2025. I presented a poster on Alzheimer's disease drug repurposing using multi-ontology enrichment analysis, with an a priori gene set derived 
from AD GWAS. Using this method I prioritized approximately 100 FDA-approved repurposable drugs and I discovered that 7 out of 89 (8%) FDA-approved drugs interacting
with AD risk genes are used to treat AD, suggesting ample repurposing opportunities! 

Since this project was very brief, plenty of work needs to be done to improve the pipeline, incorporating molecular and pharmacokinetic simulations (TBD).

{% include slider_styles.html %}

{% include slider.html selector="slider-2025-05-15" %}

{% include slider_scripts.html %}


On Wednesday, May 14th, we went to Fogo de Chão, a brazilian steakhouse, in downtown Minneapolis. I ate way too much food and drank too much limeade!

To conclude the conference, my mentor Justin Miller and collaborator Mark Ebbert presented on our work benchmarking SegmentNT, a nucleotide transformer 
model. We showed there are several biases impacting model reliability, such as variable exonic probability depending on the nucleotide's position in the input 
sequence (first, middle, last), as well as apparent cyclic oscillations every 24 n.t. in the output. These findings could be applicable to all nucleotide 
transformer models like DNABERT or HyenaDNA, perhaps due to 6-mer tokenization during training. Our preprint is out on [bioRxiv](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.04.09.647946v1.full) and under review at Nucleic Acids Research.

I met lots of great people at GLBIO 2025. Shout out to Stephen, Amanda, Garrett, and Harrison all of BYU, and Dionizije and Mateo of Entropic! Science can bring people across
the world together, from Provo, Utah to Zagreb, Croatia.
